
<!-- Korp moved to a new server, with a new address 2024-02-07 2024-02-16 -->

The Korp service of the Language Bank of Finland was moved to a new,
faster server on 7 February 2024. It also got a new URL
<https://www.kielipankki.fi/korp/>, to which the old URL
<https://korp.csc.fi> is redirected.

If something does not work as before, please send feedback either via
the <a
href="https://elomake.helsinki.fi/lomakkeet/56593/lomake.html?rinnakkaislomake=korpfeedback"
target="_blank">feedback form</a> or by email to `fin-clarin (at)
helsinki.fi`.


<!-- Korp to be moved to new server on 7 February 2024 13:00–14:00 2024-02-02 2024-02-07 -->

Korp will be moved to a new, faster server on 7 February 2024 between
1 and 2 pm, which will cause a short service break. The Korp of the
Language Bank of Finland will get a new URL
<https://www.kielipankki.fi/korp/>, to which the old URL
<https://korp.csc.fi> will be redirected.


<!-- RES corpora not in use on 25 January 2024 09:00–12:00 2024-01-19 2024-01-25 -->

Restricted corpora requiring personal access rights (RES corpora)
cannot be used in Korp on 25 January 2024 between 9 am and 12 noon due
to a service break in the Language Bank Rights (LBR) service.


<!-- Korp database update on 22 November 2022 2022-11-15 2022-11-22 -->

Korp’s database will be updated on 22 November 2022 between 8 am and
11 am. During the update, some Korp features will not work, in
particular, the word picture and the autocompletion of lemma and part
of speech in the simple search.


<!-- Korp updated 2022-02-14 2022-04-30 -->

Korp was updated to a new version on 14 February 2022. For more
information, please see the Korp newsdesk. This is a test version of
Please report any deficiencies either via the <a
href="https://elomake.helsinki.fi/lomakkeet/56593/lomake.html?rinnakkaislomake=korpfeedback"
target="_blank">feedback form</a> or by email to `fin-clarin (at)
helsinki.fi`.

The old Korp version will remain available for the time being at <a
href="https://korp.csc.fi/korp-old/#?lang=en"
target="_blank">https://korp.csc.fi/korp-old/#?lang=en</a>.


<!-- Test version of the new Korp 2022-02-02 2022-02-13 -->

This is a test version of the new Korp that is to be brought into
production use on 14 February 2022. Please report any deficiencies
either via the <a
href="https://elomake.helsinki.fi/lomakkeet/56593/lomake.html?rinnakkaislomake=korpfeedback"
target="_blank">feedback form</a> or by email to `fin-clarin (at)
helsinki.fi`.

The old Korp version will remain available for the time being at <a
href="https://korp.csc.fi/korp-old/#?lang=en"
target="_blank">https://korp.csc.fi/korp-old/#?lang=en</a>.
