
<!-- New corpus: Digital Morphology Archives (DMA) 2016-03-18b -->

The Finnish [Digital Morphology Archives
(DMA)](?mode=default#?corpus=dma&lang=en) is now available in Korp.
The text is publicly available, but the access to the scanned word
notes is restricted (<a
href="https://lbr.csc.fi/web/guest/catalogue?domain=LBR&resource=urn:nbn:fi:lb-201403261&target=application"
target="_blank">apply for access rights</a>).


<!-- Trend diagram zoom and place name map 2016-03-18a -->

This Korp main installation now has two features that were previously
in test use in the Korp Labs:

* **Zooming the trend diagram** down to the level of days in corpora
  with date information at the granularity of days.

* **A map** showing places (towns, municipalities, villages) whose
  names occur in the search result. Korp interprets as place names all
  proper names found in a place-name gazetteer even if they were
  person names in the text.

In addition, the **Swedish mode** shows **words related** to the
search word in the simple search, based on the Swedish FrameNet
(SWE-FN).

Some bugs have also been fixed.

The <a href="/lab/#?lang=en" target="_blank">Korp Labs</a> in turn can
now compile statistics based on multiple attributes.

If a previously working feature no longer works or if you notice other
bugs, please send a bug report via the <a
href="https://elomake.helsinki.fi/lomakkeet/56593/lomake.html?rinnakkaislomake=korpfeedback"
target="_blank">Korp feedback form</a>.


<!-- Name classification and restricting search context 2016-01-25b -->

This Korp main installation now has two features that were previously
in test use in the Korp Labs:

* **Name classification results** show the 30 most common person,
  place, organization and other names which occur in the *texts*
  (documents) containing search hits. Name classification currently
  only works for the corpora [FinnTreeBank
  3](?mode=default#?corpus=ftb3_europarl,ftb3_jrcacquis&lang=en) and
  [Suomi24 2001–2014 (sample)](?mode=default#?corpus=s24&lang=en). The
  names have been extracted and classified automatically.

* **Restricting the search context**: In the simple search you can
  restrict the main search to the sentences, paragraphs or texts that
  contain given words in any order. The restricting words may be
  lemmas or word forms. Words between double quotation marks
  (`"`&hellip;`"`) must occur consecutively in the text, and an
  asterisk `*` within quotation marks matches any single word. The
  KWIC view highlights only the hits for the main search expression.
  Restricting the search context does not currently affect the name
  classification results.

If these features are not present, please reload the Korp page in the
Web browser.

The <a href="/lab/#?lang=en" target="_blank">Korp Labs</a> in turn has
now a finer-grained trend diagram and a map showing place names found
in the search results. In addition, a few bugs have been fixed.


<!-- New corpora: Suomi24, OPUS and Finnish journals and magazines 2016-01-25a -->

The Finnish mode has for some time had the full version of the
[Suomi24 Internet discussion forum
corpus](?mode=default#?corpus=suomi24&lang=en) with over 2 billion
tokens. For technical reasons, the corpus has been split into nine
parts in Korp.

The parallel mode has for some time had parts of the [OPUS open source
parallel corpus](?mode=parallel#?corpus=opus&lang=en) (Finnish as one
language).

A recent addition is a collection of Finnish [scholarly
journals](?mode=default#?corpus=tiedelehdet&lang=en) and [other
journals and magazines](?mode=default#?corpus=muut_lehdet&lang=en)
from the 1990s and 2000s. This collection will grow in the near
future.


<!-- Korp updated: trend diagram now works with multiple words 2015-08-20 -->

The update has fixed bugs in the statistics result view; in
particular, you can now select multiple words or other features in the
statistics table for the trend diagram. These fixes were already
present in the <a href="/beta/?lang=en" target="_blank">beta version
of Korp</a>.


<!-- The main Korp installation updated 2015-04-30c -->

New features of the new Korp version 4.0 include this **mewsdesk** and
comparing the results of two searches. <a
href="http://www.kielipankki.fi/KielipankkiNewsKorp30042015"
target="_blank">More information about the update and new features in
Kielipankki news.</a>

The word picture works at the moment only for a handful of corpora.
Updating the word picture database for all corpora takes a few weeks.
The old Korp with its working word picture is still available at <a
href="/old/?lang=en"
target="_blank">https://korp.csc.fi/old/</a>.

In the corpus selector the corpus HS.fi is now in the folder
”Internet-keskusteluaineistoja” and LAS2 in ”Suomenoppijoiden kieltä”.

You can send bug reports, feature requests and other feedback on Korp
via the <a
href="https://elomake.helsinki.fi/lomakkeet/56593/lomake.html?rinnakkaislomake=korpfeedback"
target="_blank">Korp feedback form</a>.


<!-- EuroParl parallel corpus 2015-04-30b -->

The Parallel corpus mode now contains the [EuroParl parallel
corpus](?mode=parallel#?corpus=europarl_v7_enfi_fi,europarl_v7_svfi_fi,europarl_v7_defi_fi,europarl_v7_frfi_fi,europarl_v7_esfi_fi,europarl_v7_etfi_fi&lang=en)
Finnish aligned with
[English](?mode=parallel#?corpus=europarl_v7_enfi_fi&lang=en),
[Swedish](?mode=parallel#?corpus=europarl_v7_svfi_fi&lang=en),
[German](?mode=parallel#?corpus=europarl_v7_defi_fi&lang=en),
[French](?mode=parallel#?corpus=europarl_v7_frfi_fi&lang=en),
[Spanish](?mode=parallel#?corpus=europarl_v7_esfi_fi&lang=en) and
[Estonian](?mode=parallel#?corpus=europarl_v7_etfi_fi&lang=en).


<!-- ICLFI – International Corpus of Learner Finnish 2015-04-30a -->

[ICLFI – International Corpus of Learner
Finnish](?mode=default#?corpus=iclfi&lang=en) is in the corpus folder
”Suomenoppijoiden kieltä”. The access to the corpus is restricted: you
need to <a href="https://lbr.csc.fi/" target="_blank">apply for access
rights</a>.
